[Music]
so our parents teach us to be polite but
what you learned as a kid doesn't always
apply when you're in another part of the
world so if you're heading to the US any
time soon I've got some tips for you on
what we Americans consider the rules of
etiquette and some stuff that's totally
okay in the US that other countries
might consider rude let's start off with
my favorite food etiquette number one
feel free to ask for some condiments if
you're eating out and your food is
tasting a little bland it's completely
fine to ask for salt pepper or sauces to
add a little zing to your meal
I know some places in Europe see it as
an insult to the chef if you start
adding a little spice of your own but
don't worry about that in the US
nobody's gonna be offended or give you
weird looks if you ask the waiter for a
bottle of ketchup even if you're at
someone's house visiting they won't see
it as a jab to their culinary skills
either some just like it spicier than
others number two always tip okay well
maybe not always but it's a rare
occurrence if you don't tip your waiter
hairdresser cab driver and so on and
only if the service was really awful but
even then a lot of Americans feel guilty
about not leaving any tip the rule is 15
to 20 percent of the bill so get ready
to do some mental math each time you eat
out I've heard that tipping isn't a
thing in some countries especially in
East Asia where restaurant staff always
provide good service no matter what but
in the u.s. it's simply a sign of
gratitude that your waiter did a good
job even though they're probably tired
their feet hurt and they've got a bunch
of other tables to tend to number three
clean up after yourself at fast-food
restaurants
of course if you're going to the States
I imagine a lot of your eating out will
be done in fast-food joints you'll see a
lot more of those than your traditional
sit and be served by a waiter types of
places but anyways if you're finished
eating and your tray is now full of
wrappers use napkins and empty boxes
take it to the trash can and dispose of
the garbage yourself most fast food
places don't have a separate cleaning
staff for that it's pretty much always
the cashier that needs to find time
between ringing people up to go clean up
the dining area so we try to help them
out a bit and clean up after ourselves
number four
open gifts immediately in front of the
giver now I was pretty surprised when I
found out that opening a gift as soon as
you get it is considered bad manners in
certain parts of the world I guess some
cultures see it as kind of greedy when
you start tearing into a present right
away in the u.s. it's pretty much the
opposite open it as soon as you get it
right in front of the giver that way
they can see your reaction and you can
thank them right there on the spot there
are also no rules about using both hands
or a certain hand when giving or
receiving a gift just grab it and open
it already number five be ready for
small talk how about that game last
night huh when's this weather gonna let
up already yes Americans love small talk
so don't be surprised if a stranger just
starts chatting with you while you're
waiting in line or sharing an elevator
it could be sports the weather traffic
anything just to have a short light
conversation I can't really say why we
like talking to people we don't even
know but I mean you know if you're
sharing a space with someone are you
just gonna totally ignore their presence
that'd be awkward oh yeah and you'll get
asked how you're doing a lot even by
strangers it's usually waiters and
cashiers that'll greet you with a hi how
are you today just answer with fine and
you
if you're not exactly having a fantastic
day number six expect a lot of smiles
first of all let me bust the myth that
Americans constantly walk around smiling
ear-to-ear nobody does that
because that'd be weird but again if
you're sharing a space and making small
talk with a stranger or maybe someone
opens or holds the door for you they'll
smile at you and it's polite if you do
the same cashiers and waiters also greet
you with a big friendly smile I read
somewhere that this goes back to our
early history as a country built by
people who all spoke different languages
they didn't understand each other all
that well so they just smiled but I
still think we just like to be open and
kind number seven respect the bubble now
here's a pretty funny thing about
Americans we're friendly we love to chat
but we also really like our personal
bubble the unspoken rule is to stand
about an arm's length away when you're
talking with someone
we're also not too big on touching
during conversation because this can be
misconstrued as a way of flirting of
course the rule doesn't apply with close
friends and family but still even that
most Americans aren't too touchy-feely
number eight and definitely no kissing I
know in countries like Spain and France
people often greet each other with a
peck or two on the cheek there might be
some Americans who greet the European
Way but overall we don't kiss each other
as a way to say hi again my personal
bubble is my sanctuary so don't come in
it with puckered lips of blazing it's
best to just say hi smile and keep it at
that number nine being loud is usually
okay the stereotype of the loud American
tourists might ring true most of the
time since we tend to project our voices
even out in public it's not that we're
yelling all the time but I'd say we
certainly speak louder than people in
Europe or Asia
I've gotten some friendly reminder to
take it down a few decibels when
visiting my friends abroad but hey if
you're ever in the States feel free to
laugh out loud or get particularly
animated while telling a joke but of
course there's a time and place for that
you still have to hush down in places
like libraries Shh number 10 in
directness is politeness so here's the
thing about Americans a direct no I
don't want or like that is seen as
pretty rude but if an American gives you
a polite no thanks I'd rather not or I
don't think that's the best idea that
doesn't mean that they're on the fence
about it no means no even if it's said
indirectly and super politely it's
frowned upon to try and convince someone
to do something or change their mind
because it's seen as pushy and
disrespectful to their wishes number
eleven sit in the back seat of a cab and
this is something interesting I found
out about Australia and New Zealand
there it's considered rude to take the
back seat of a cab because it's almost
like you're showing that you expect to
be chauffeured by someone who's lower
than you well don't worry about that in
the u.s. in fact you should ride in the
back seat because the driver might give
you a weird look otherwise it's not an
elitist thing and you can still make
friendly small talk from the back just
respect the drivers personal bubble
that's all number twelve feel free to
keep your shoes on inside I had a friend
from Russia recently asked me why is it
that in all American movies people are
walking around their house with their
shoes on and I just pulled them straight
up because that's what we do now there
are plenty of families here that don't
have a no shoes indoors policy although
I'd say the majority don't so here's a
good rule of etiquette to live by if you
ever visit an American's home when you
walk in ask if you should take your
shoes off at the door if they say yeah
you're okay don't feel bad about walking
around their house and your shoes I know
it seems bizarre to most people around
the world
but it's a-ok here 13 it's okay to keep
it casual overall I'd say the biggest
thing about Americans is that most of us
are pretty casual and laid-back if
you're ever out and about in the u.s.
you'll see a lot of people running
errands and sweatpants gym shorts ball
caps and even their PJs but it's not
just about clothes either we often keep
it on a first name basis even with
people that are generally referred to
more formally in other countries for
example most of the time your boss is
just Jim or Janet not mr. or mrs. Jones
you might start off more formally but I
guarantee you that that person will say
right off the bat a call me Jim
now what would be weird is if their name
isn't Jim maybe it's Howard or Benny
then what you say is hey call me a cab
so are any of these Americanisms
different or the same in your country
and to all my fellow Americans can you
add anything to the list let me know
down in the comments if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go call me a cab just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life